[Music]
two and a half thousand kilometers from
Britain's south coast into Morocco what
he found there helped to reveal how
butterflies can benefit from climate
change in summer The Painted Lady is one
of Britain's communist butterflies but
in winter it disappears where they go
had been a mystery but Spanish
scientists constantiy Stefan Eskew found
them he'd been searching for years but
at last he'd found what he'd been
looking for high in the Atlas Mountains
of Morocco were hundreds of thousands of
nomads waiting for the right conditions
- proportional
[Music]
Constanta discovery proved that Painted
Ladies travel further than anyone had
thought it never hibernates
instead it lives its life as a restless
nomad that's always on the move
tracking the best places at the right
moments Painted Lady caterpillars have
simple tastes
thistles nettles and mallas common
plants found from Africa to the Arctic
Circle but crucially at different times
of year instead of waiting for their
plants to grow the Painted Lady goes
looking for them flying wherever its
food plants are to be hand individuals
can travel two and a half thousand
kilometres from the mountains of Morocco
all the way to Britain like any nomads
they rarely pass an opportunity to
refuel sugary dates from the trees or
the sale in local suits and on flowers
briefly brought to life by the slowest
moving stream and though feeding here
has its own risks
[Music]
many painted ladies perish from their
journey
you